Let's say you want to build the dashboard with big data to support a team of analysts,
this usually starts with extracting and transforming data.
Similar to what we described for the Sparkify report on top artists for Canadians.
The final step is to load the results into a database,
where they can be quickly retrieved by
a data visualization tool to make an interactive dashboard.
This process of extracting,
transforming, and loading data,
is so common, hence it's abbreviation ETL,
has become a verb in the industry.
ETLing data is the bread and butter of systems like Spark,
and is an essential skill for anyone working with big data.
The second use case for Spark,
is to train machine learning models on big data.
Spark is particularly useful for iterative algorithms,
like Logistic Regression or calculating Page Rank.
These algorithms repeat calculations with slightly different parameters,
over and over on the same data.
Spark is designed to keep this data in your memory,
considerably speeding up the training.
Spark strength that these two use cases,
general-purpose big data analytics and machine
learning is what makes it king of the big data ecosystem.
It does this by using all the distributed processing techniques of Hadoop MapReduce,
but with a more efficient use of memory.